Mod Information
-----------------------------

Title : QW Competition Mod
Filename : qwr325.zip
Version : Release Candidate 3.25
Date : 8/16/97
Author : Steven Possehl
Email : marmot@stomped.com
Credits : id software, for being responsible for the complete disappearance
of any freetime in my life

Marmot's Note: This is the QW Competition server mod. It kicks the usual
amount of booty that is customary for my mods.

Description of the Modification
-----------------------------

This mod represents a competely new direction for programming for me. It is
unique in the aspect that I really didn't want to do it. Really really
didn't want to. I've been doing these clan mods for so long and taken so
much crap from people in regards to the mod that i'm completely disgusted
with it. However, the realities of the clan community have dictated that I
must produce this version. This mod is also unique in its design. It
represents a new direction in the design of the mod. The CR mod was based
around observers. This mod has no observer capabilities at all. It is meant
to be used by clans in their matches against other clans. I've realized
that at some point, you really have to leave it up to the clans to play
these matches. We really don't have the resources to hold everyone's hand.
This mod has been designed to let clans run their own matches. If a clan
cannot run a match without an observer, there really isn't much that I can
do for them. This isn't elementary school anymore, I know that the clans
have the ability to cut out the "crap" and get down to business. All this
nonsense about cheating and ping advantages and stuff is just bad
sportsmanship that has gotten out of hand. If we work together and
cooperate, we can play matches fairly and smoothly.

Notable Stuff in this Version
-----------------------------

v3.25 is in the second series of the QW Competition mod. The first series
ended with v3.10 which I thought was fairly stable. I've started to get
occasional reports of instability and bugs in certain situations so this
second series is an effort to fix those problems. My primary emphasis has
been on eliminating server crashes and minimizing telefrags on spawn. I
believe that telefrags on spawn have been nearly eliminated in this
version, however, I'm not 100% convinced that the spawn system will work
correctly in a large match.

This mod allows all server modifications to be done by localinfo and
serverinfo. Check the server.cfg file for information on changing settings.

This version is completely QW 2.0 compatible.

Overview
-----------------------------

This server was designed to be controlled exclusively from the console, I
believe that this is a superior method to the impulse command driven system
that I previously used. Console commands do not require that keys be bound
to certain little-used impulses and provide a much more intuitive means of
interaction.

However, it is possible to use access all functions outside of console by
binding keys. Here is a list of general guidelines that will allow you to
do this. I don't want to go into great depth here so if you have a question
or suggestion for making something clearer, send email to me at
marmot@stomped.com.

First of all, you need to bind keys to the impulses of the commands that
you would like to use. Particularly valuable bindings would be Warp and
Admin.

You need to make sure that 1 thru 0 is bound to impulse 1 through 10. You
also need to make sure you have "yes" and "no", impulses 121 and 110
respectively.

Instructions - Setup
-----------------------------

Create a directory under your quake directory called qwcomp and extract the
qwprogs.dat file into that dir. You will also need to copy the enclosed
server.cfg file into your qw directory. You will most likely want to edit
at least part of the servers.cfg file.

Run qwsv.exe

Commands - Players
-----------------------------

Ready ( impulse 40 ) ==> this signals the server that you are ready to play
and you'd like to be placed on a team. It will then place you on a team if
your team field matches one of the clan's team fields, or it will create a
new clan if it doesn't. You cannot join a team when your team field is
blank. If you receive the error "Invalid Team" you either have a blank
field or there are already 2 teams and your team doesn't match either of
them. Use "playerlist" to see the existing team fields.

Note: When all players on a server have joined teams and the game is not
being run by an observer, the game will automatically start at 1 minute
countdown, once this is up, the match will begin.

NotReady ( impulse 41 ) ==> this says that you're not happy with your
current team. It will remove you from your team and eliminate your team if
you were the last person remaining. It will also stop the countdown if the
game is being run without an admin

Playerlist ( impulse 80 ) ==> a very valuable command, this allows you to
see the status of everyone on the server and to see what the team field of
the existing teams are. Also tells how long each player has been dead
total(if someone is much higher than everyone else, they've been playing
dead.) and what skin they are using.

Clanlist ( impulse 79 ) ==> same as above, but only for your clan.

Warp ( impulse 48 ) ==> allows changing of levels. If you are not an admin,
you need the approval of half of the people on the server, or a minimum of
3 people to change levels. After you type in "warp" and hit enter, type in
the episode number and hit enter and then hit the level number. It will
then request that the remaining people on the server confirm that this is
where you want to go. Once a sufficient number of people have typed "yes"
at the console, the level will change.

Note: Episode 5 is the deathmatch levels, and Episode 6 is the start level.

Commands ( impulse 99 ) ==> gives a listing of all available commands.

Admin ( impulse 51 ) ==> initiates admin authorization sequence. You are
prompted for the 4 digit code. If you are unsuccessful at typing the code
more than a couple times, the game assumes you are trying to hack the
server and disconnects you. If you are already an admin, you will become a
normal observer.

Score ( impulse 76 ) ==> tells you the current score

ViewRecord ( impulse 44 ) ==> gives the clan scores from the previous match

ModStatus ( impulse 49 ) ==> gives information about current settings

PlayerStats ( impulse 81 ) ==> Gives stats about players, such as kills,
deaths, friendly kills, enemy kills

ClanStats ( impulse 82 ) ==> Gives stats about clans, such as kills,
deaths, friendly kills, enemy kills

WeaponStats ( impulse 83 ) ==> Gives stats about your ammo usage, how much
damage potential you've fired and how much damage you've actually
inflicted, and the percentage

Efficiency ( impulse 84 ) ==> Gives efficiency ratings about players,
currently kill efficiency, frags per minute and ammo efficiency

NoSwitch ( impulse 37 ) ==> This command was made obsolete by the addition
of b_switch and w_switch into QW 1.55, barring any objections, I will be
removing this command in the next version.

Timerstart ( impulse 130 ) ==> Starts a vote to determine if the match will
start. 70% of the players on the server much type in 'yes' to agree to the
match start. Only active in Clan Mode.

Elect ( impulse 38 ) ==> Starts a vote to determine if you will be given
admin privilages. Used by clans to set server settings for clan matches.
Only active in Clan Mode.

Modeset ( impulse 147 ) ==> Starts a vote to determine if the server will
be switch to clan mode. 70% of the players on the server must type in 'yes'
to agree to the mode change. Only active in Skirmish Mode.

Maps ( impulse 88 ) ==> Gives a list of the currently available custom maps

Motd ( impulse 89 ) ==> Displays the server greeting

Skinset ( impulse 90 ) ==> Sets all teammates to your skin and colors

Commands - Admins
-----------------------------

These commands won't be explained in great depth, mainly because there are
too many of them, and partially because my hands are getting sore from
typing.

Timerstart ( impulse 130 ) ==> starts the game timer in 10 minute rally/20
minute game mode

Timerstop ( impulse 133 ) ==> stops all timers and returns game to standby
mode

Timerup ( impulse 131 ) ==> adds one minute to current timer

Timerdown ( impulse 132 ) ==> subtracts one minute from current timer

Tlimitup ( impulse 142 ) ==> adds ten minutes to current timelimit

Tlimitdown ( impulse 143 ) ==> subtracts ten minutes from timelimit

Flimitup ( impulse 144 ) ==> adds ten to the fraglimit

Flimitdown ( impulse 145 ) ==> subtracts ten from the fraglimit

Noexitset ( impulse 146 ) ==> toggles noexit setting

Matchup ( impulse 134 ) ==> adds ten minutes to match timer

Matchdown ( impulse 135 ) ==> subtracts ten minutes from match timer

Skick ( impulse 75 ) ==> initiates kick routine. game will then display the
names of those on the server one by one. Use the "Yes" and "No" commands
for each player.

Showscore ( impulse 200 ) ==> shows the current clan score to everyone on
the server

Score ( impulse 76 ) ==> shows the current clan score to you

Playerlist ( impulse 154 ) ==> same as listed in player commands

Clearclans ( impulse 161 ) ==> clears all clan information, including
removal of all individuals from each clan and removal of clan color
information.

This is NOT intended to be used except in rare occasions. All clan info is
automatically wiped after each game, and use of this command during a game
would have disasterous consequencies.

Noexitset ( impulse 78 ) ==> toggles noexit

Warp ( impulse 48 ) ==> same as in player commands, except that level
change is instantaneous since approval of other players is not required.

Commands ( impulse 99 ) ==> listing of currently available commands

Dmset ( impulse 68 ) ==> Toggles between deathmatch modes

Tmset ( impulse 140 ) ==> Toggles between teamplay modes

Modeset ( impulse 147 ) ==> Toggles between skirmish and clan modes

Timerpause ( impulse 45 ) ==> freezes the timer and all players

ViewRecord ( impulse 44 ) ==> tells the scores from the previous match

Lockout ( impulse 46 ) ==> toggles whether new clans can be created during
a match

Lockmax ( impulse 47 ) ==> toggles the number of players that can be on a
team, available values are between 2 and 16

Lockteam ( impulse 39 ) ==> toggles the number of teams that are allowed, 2
is default, currently supports up to 8

ModStatus ( impulse 49 ) ==> gives information about current settings

Powerups ( impulse 85 ) ==> toggles what powerups are allowed in the game.
Set to 1 to disable Pentagram, set to 2 to disable Quad, set to 3 to
disable both

Dedicated ( impulse 86 ) ==> toggles whether or not the server will
automatically revert back to FFA mode from Competition mode

Mute ( impulse 87 ) ==> toggles if spectators are allowed to talk to
players in the game

Pickup ( impulse 162 ) ==> clears all skins, teams, and colors for everyone
not already on a team

Effects ( impulse 163 ) ==> toggles if GL light effects are enabled

Technical Details
-----------------------------

The organizational structure of this mod is based upon watching monkies in
a zoo run around and punch each other.

Author Information
-----------------------------

This is my second publicly distributed QuakeC patch.

The first was "Marmot's Happy Fun Server Mod"
It sucked.
This one is better.

I'm a Senior Mechanical Engineer at Virginia Tech. I have no programming
experience whatsoever with the exception of Fortran.

Copyright and Distribution Permissions
-----------------------------

The modifications included in this archive are Copyright 1997, Steven
Possehl. The original QuakeC source is Copyright 1996, id software.

You may distribute this Quake modification in any electronic format as long
as all the files in this archive remain intact and unmodified and are
distributed together.

This patch may be run on a quake server under the following conditions:
A: No fee may be charged for the use of the server, either directly or
indirectly
B: This mod is intended to be installed on servers for Clanlink
competitions. Running of this mod implies consent to use your server in
Clanlink events.
B: The server is not used in any non-Clanlink competition without prior
approval of Marmot(marmot@stomped.com)

You may not post this Quake modification on a server, such as a WWW or FTP
server since it is a beta. My beta's tend to average about 6 hours before
they become obsolete, therefore, wide distribution would result in alot of
people running an obsolete version. The final release will be widely
available.

Availability
-----------------------------

Our site is located at http://clanlink.stomped.com The mod should be
available in the Server Mod section.
